BIB is a new project of sorts, one to try and sift through the garbage that
makes its way into my brain's stack. For a while I kept track of what I read
with pinboard.in, but it's price and lack of text search meant that I didn't
follow through with it in following years. I also keep a journal of sorts (which
I intend to continue using in conjunction with bib), but for in terms of
tracking an being able to filter data it's obviously suboptimal, especially when
a large amount of the things I'd like to track are links to articles.

I'd rather not build anything too fancy around the idea, in fact I'm not
building anything for the moment -- I've tried building a webapp[1] for this
sort of stuff but my interest wained and it isn't quite suited for the sort of
long-form tracking of text that I want to do here (i.e.
[2020/12/19/orbifold.xyz/fifty-shades.html]). I might finish eventually, if only
for a toy that I could list on my resume, but that's beside the point.

I'm going to backfill some links today, for the things that are still sitting in
my head and were recent enough that I could trace them back. This should
hopefully help cement what kind of data I want to keep here -- although I
needn't set any restrictions for myself really.

I'll probably end up using this instead of my quasi-blog[2] if this is
successful -- I should probably quantify success here? The goal is to keep this
simple and portable enough that anywhere I am I can quickly stash ideas, even if
I don't fully flesh them out at the time -- something I found with pinboard.in
and tagging articles. I also want it to be a rich enough archive that I can
search for words/ideas and isolate an article without needing to remember too
many specifics about it (e.g. website, article name, exact date), while also
storing the specifics. Hopefully the directory schema I've chosen will be
sufficient to track the specifics, while storing details inside will allow me to
fuzzily trace for ideas.

In terms of the tooling that I'm currently avoiding making, one would be a
symlinking tool which could aggregate articles containing 'tag words' into
tag directories. I also think a nice interface to save articles and extract
snippets would be useful. As a stretch some way of doing this on my phone would
be nice, at the moment I would probably just create a GH issue to remind me and
then fill in the details later.

One thing that I intend to keep to my journal is the drivel -- the malformed
garbage phrases that float up from time to time, although I find these quite
entertaining I don't think they fit into the goal of this project. Additionally
particularly personal things (such as dreams and TODOs) don't belong here.

It might be a good idea to keep some lists here as well, going beyond the
theoretical symlink tag program, some good old fashioned lists with friendly
names linking to exact articles. This could replace playlists on things like
YouTube, which I don't often use for actual "Play"listing, and am often quite
dissapointend when random articles dissapear from these lists, with no more of a
trace than [Video Deleted].

[1]: github.com/dylan-lom/spt
[2]: dlom.cc

